Electric vehicles and powerful new
battery technologies are transforming –
both the transportation and energy industries.
Whether fully electric, hybrid or plug-in hybrid design, –
electrification is the key technology
in reducing harmful emissions –
from vehicles and mobile machinery.
VTT works together with its clients in researching
and developing new battery technologies –
and electrification methods.
We have the research facilities and experience
in electrification research that enable –
comprehensive experimental work
on battery cells, modules and packs, –
as well as BMS development to improve
electrical and thermal management.
In our laboratory, we can test battery
behaviour under various operating conditions, ––
for example, finding an
optimal approach for its cooling.
By improving the electricity
storage in batteries, –
we can make also stationary energy
storage systems more viable –
and sustainable than ever before.
Our facilities support a wide
range of experimental work –.
from electric motors and engines
to drivetrains and complete vehicles.
Whether light or heavy duty, the performance
of electric vehicles can be measured.
In addition to experimental testing, we have
extensive modelling and simulation capacities.
We create digital models of
batteries and other components, –
enabling us to carry out simulations
without the need to build prototypes.
The models enable also
hardware-in-the-loop testing.
We are especially proud of the VTT Smart eFleet,
a validated system-level simulation environment –
capable of modelling electric
vehicle fleet operations, –
ranging from electric underground
mining to city bus operations, –
and from system planning to
operation-based digital-twin applications.
Simulations provide important information
for reducing total costs and harmful emissions, –
or optimising systems
with digital-twin solutions.
However, a useful simulation
tool requires validation.
A wide range of VTT research
facilities have been utilized –
in the design of the VTT Smart eFleet
to produce as accurate results as possible.
A wide range of solutions are needed
for the electrification of transport.
VTT’s expertise and facilities enable development
work together with our clients and partners.